README.md, before:

# OpenAI Proxy Server

> **⚠️ Disclaimer**: This code is AI-generated slop that has been cobbled together with varying degrees of competence. While it appears to function to a certain extent for basic use cases, it should not be considered production-ready or thoroughly tested. Use at your own risk and expect potential issues, edge cases, and general weirdness. No guarantees are made about its reliability, security, or correctness.

A FastAPI-based proxy server that acts as a middleware between OpenAI-compatible clients and the Venice.ai API. This proxy provides enhanced reliability with automatic retry logic, rate limit handling, and request/response transformation capabilities.

## Features

- **Smart Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff with configurable retry attempts for handling rate limits and temporary failures
- **Streaming Support**: Full support for Server-Sent Events (SSE) streaming responses
- **Request Transformation**: Automatically removes unsupported parameters and handles API compatibility
- **Health Monitoring**: Built-in health check endpoint for monitoring proxy status
- **Configuration Flexibility**: Environment-based configuration for easy deployment
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring

## Screenshot

![OpenAI Proxy Server Screenshot](docs/screen.jpg)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Required Python packages (install via pip):
  ```bash
  pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx
  ```

### Installation

1. Clone or download the project
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx
   ```

### Running the Server

Start the proxy server with default settings:
```bash
python proxy.py
```

Or run with uvicorn directly:
```bash
uvicorn proxy:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000
```

The server will start on `http://0.0.0.0:9000` by default.

## Configuration

Configure the proxy using environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_BASE_URL` | `https://api.venice.ai/api/v1` | Target API endpoint |
| `PROXY_PATH_PREFIX` | `/api/v1` | Proxy path prefix |
| `TIMEOUT` | `300` | Request timeout in seconds |
| `MAX_RETRIES` | `5` | Maximum retry attempts |
| `BASE_RETRY_DELAY` | `1.0` | Base delay for exponential backoff |
| `RATE_LIMIT_WAIT` | `30` | Wait time for rate limit errors |
| `HOST` | `0.0.0.0` | Server host |
| `PORT` | `9000` | Server port |

### Example Configuration

```bash
export OPENAI_BASE_URL="https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"
export MAX_RETRIES="3"
export PORT="8080"
python proxy.py
```

## API Endpoints

### Proxy Endpoint

**URL**: `{PROXY_PATH_PREFIX}/{path:path}`
**Methods**: `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, `PATCH`, `OPTIONS`, `HEAD`

Proxies all OpenAI-compatible requests to the configured target API. Supports both regular and streaming responses.

### Health Check

**URL**: `/health`
**Method**: `GET`

Returns the health status of the proxy server and target API.

**Response Example**:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "target": "https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Basic Chat Completion

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9000/api/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "llama-3.1-405b",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
  }'
```

### Streaming Request

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9000/api/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "llama-3.1-405b",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}],
    "stream": true
  }'
```

### Health Check

```bash
curl http://localhost:9000/health
```

## Advanced Features

### Rate Limit Handling

The proxy automatically handles 429 ( Too Many Requests) errors with:
- Exponential backoff retry logic
- Configurable retry attempts and delays
- Intelligent waiting for rate limit reset

### Request Transformation

The proxy automatically:
- Removes unsupported parameters (e.g., `prompt_cache_key`, `logprobs`, `top_logprobs`)
- Handles API path compatibility (e.g., Ollama `/api/v1/api/tags` → `/api/tags`)
- Transforms encoding formats (e.g., `base64` → `float` for embeddings)

### Error Handling

- Detailed error logging for debugging
- Graceful handling of network timeouts
- Proper HTTP status code forwarding
- Internal proxy error isolation

## Monitoring and Logging

The proxy provides comprehensive logging:
- Request path logging
- Retry attempt logging
- Error details and stack traces
- Startup configuration information

## Deployment

### Docker

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.9-slim

WORKDIR /app
COPY proxy.py .
RUN pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx

EXPOSE 9000
CMD ["python", "proxy.py"]
```

### Docker Compose

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  openai-proxy:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "9000:9000"
    environment:
      - OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.venice.ai/api/v1
      - MAX_RETRIES=5
      - PORT=9000
```

## Security Considerations

- The proxy does not authenticate requests - consider adding authentication middleware
- API keys are passed through to the target service unchanged
- Ensure proper network security in production environments
- Monitor logs for unusual request patterns

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Timeouts**: Increase the `TIMEOUT` environment variable
2. **Rate Limiting**: Reduce concurrent requests or increase `MAX_RETRIES`
3. **Parameter Errors**: Check that your requests use Venice.ai-compatible parameters

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging by setting the log level:
```bash
uvicorn proxy:app --log-level debug
```

## Contributing

This is a standalone proxy server designed for Venice.ai API compatibility. Feel free to submit issues or enhancement requests.

## License

This project is provided as-is for development and testing purposes.

Commit message:

Update README with project description and repository link

README.md, after:

# OpenAI Proxy Server

> **⚠️ DISCLAIMER**: CODE IS AI GENERATED SLOP, I DIDN'T HAVE TIME TO REFACTOR, BUT IT WORKS FOR ME.

A proxy server designed to bypass ISP restrictions and improve AI tool calling reliability. This proxy can be installed on your VPS in the cloud and used instead of Venice when Venice is not directly reachable. It's more convenient than constantly turning VPN on and off. The proxy also intercepts and fixes tool calls - for example, the Zed editor's Qwen Coder model doesn't pass parameters to tool calls properly, so I added a fix for that. You can add your own improvements. Additionally, it properly handles rate limit retries when retry headers are not handled correctly by the original service.

## Features

- **Smart Retry Logic**: Exponential backoff with configurable retry attempts for handling rate limits and temporary failures
- **Streaming Support**: Full support for Server-Sent Events (SSE) streaming responses
- **Request Transformation**: Automatically removes unsupported parameters and handles API compatibility
- **Health Monitoring**: Built-in health check endpoint for monitoring proxy status
- **Configuration Flexibility**: Environment-based configuration for easy deployment
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring

## Screenshot

![OpenAI Proxy Server Screenshot](docs/screen.jpg)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Required Python packages (install via pip):
  ```bash
  pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx
  ```

### Installation

1. Clone or download the project
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx
   ```

### Running the Server

Start the proxy server with default settings:
```bash
python proxy.py
```

Or run with uvicorn directly:
```bash
uvicorn proxy:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000
```

The server will start on `http://0.0.0.0:9000` by default.

## Configuration

Configure the proxy using environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_BASE_URL` | `https://api.venice.ai/api/v1` | Target API endpoint |
| `PROXY_PATH_PREFIX` | `/api/v1` | Proxy path prefix |
| `TIMEOUT` | `300` | Request timeout in seconds |
| `MAX_RETRIES` | `5` | Maximum retry attempts |
| `BASE_RETRY_DELAY` | `1.0` | Base delay for exponential backoff |
| `RATE_LIMIT_WAIT` | `30` | Wait time for rate limit errors |
| `HOST` | `0.0.0.0` | Server host |
| `PORT` | `9000` | Server port |

### Example Configuration

```bash
export OPENAI_BASE_URL="https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"
export MAX_RETRIES="3"
export PORT="8080"
python proxy.py
```

## API Endpoints

### Proxy Endpoint

**URL**: `{PROXY_PATH_PREFIX}/{path:path}`
**Methods**: `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, `PATCH`, `OPTIONS`, `HEAD`

Proxies all OpenAI-compatible requests to the configured target API. Supports both regular and streaming responses.

### Health Check

**URL**: `/health`
**Method**: `GET`

Returns the health status of the proxy server and target API.

**Response Example**:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "target": "https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Basic Chat Completion

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9000/api/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "llama-3.1-405b",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}]
  }'
```

### Streaming Request

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:9000/api/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "llama-3.1-405b",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}],
    "stream": true
  }'
```

### Health Check

```bash
curl http://localhost:9000/health
```

## Advanced Features

### Rate Limit Handling

The proxy automatically handles 429 ( Too Many Requests) errors with:
- Exponential backoff retry logic
- Configurable retry attempts and delays
- Intelligent waiting for rate limit reset

### Request Transformation

The proxy automatically:
- Removes unsupported parameters (e.g., `prompt_cache_key`, `logprobs`, `top_logprobs`)
- Handles API path compatibility (e.g., Ollama `/api/v1/api/tags` → `/api/tags`)
- Transforms encoding formats (e.g., `base64` → `float` for embeddings)

### Error Handling

- Detailed error logging for debugging
- Graceful handling of network timeouts
- Proper HTTP status code forwarding
- Internal proxy error isolation

## Monitoring and Logging

The proxy provides comprehensive logging:
- Request path logging
- Retry attempt logging
- Error details and stack traces
- Startup configuration information

## Deployment

### Docker

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.9-slim

WORKDIR /app
COPY proxy.py .
RUN pip install fastapi uvicorn httpx

EXPOSE 9000
CMD ["python", "proxy.py"]
```

### Docker Compose

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  openai-proxy:
    build: .
    ports:
      - "9000:9000"
    environment:
      - OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.venice.ai/api/v1
      - MAX_RETRIES=5
      - PORT=9000
```

## Security Considerations

- The proxy does not authenticate requests - consider adding authentication middleware
- API keys are passed through to the target service unchanged
- Ensure proper network security in production environments
- Monitor logs for unusual request patterns

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Timeouts**: Increase the `TIMEOUT` environment variable
2. **Rate Limiting**: Reduce concurrent requests or increase `MAX_RETRIES`
3. **Parameter Errors**: Check that your requests use Venice.ai-compatible parameters

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging by setting the log level:
```bash
uvicorn proxy:app --log-level debug
```

## GitHub Repository

https://github.com/atomic-235/openaicproxy

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or enhancement requests. You can add your own improvements to handle specific AI tool calling issues or other edge cases you encounter.

## License

This project is provided as-is for development and testing purposes.
